specreduce/datasets/onedstds/README.md, before:

# README for specreduce/datasets/onedstds

This directory contains standard calibration data for extinction and sensitivity 
calibration as used in 1D spectroscopy, 2D spectroscopy, as well as various 
image reduction tasks. 

Currently we focus on both extinction tables and flux standard directories inherited
from `IRAF`'s `noao` package. 

Extinction Tables
-----------------

* ctioextinct.dat - CTIO extinction table for ONEDSPEC (in Angstroms)
The CTIO extinction curve distributed with IRAF comes from the work of
Stone & Baldwin (1983 MN 204, 347) and Baldwin & Stone (1984 MN 206,
241).  The first of these papers lists the points from 3200-8370A while
the second extended the flux calibration from 6056 to 10870A but the
derived extinction curve was not given in the paper.  The IRAF table
follows SB83 out to 6436, the redder points presumably come from BS84
with averages used in the overlap region.

    More recent CTIO extinction curves are shown as Figures in Hamuy 
et al (92, PASP 104, 533 ; 94 PASP 106, 566). -- Steve Heathcote, Mon, 19 Jul 1999


* kpnoextinct.dat - KPNO extinction table for ONEDSPEC (in Angstroms)

Flux Standard Directories
----------------------------

 * blackbody - Directory for using blackbody flux distributions in
various magnitude bands.

 * bstdscal - Directory of the brighter KPNO IRS standards (i.e. those 
with HR numbers) at 29 bandpasses, data from various
sources transformed to the Hayes and Latham system,
unpublished.

* ctiocal - Directory containing fluxes for the southern tertiary
standards as published by Baldwin & Stone, 1984, MNRAS,
206, 241 and Stone and Baldwin, 1983, MNRAS, 204, 347.

* ctionewcal - Directory containing fluxes at 50A steps in the blue range
3300-7550A for the tertiary standards of Baldwin and
Stone derived from the revised calibration of Hamuy et
al., 1992, PASP, 104, 533.  This directory also contains
the fluxes of the tertiaries in the red (6050-10000A) at
50A steps as will be published in PASP (Hamuy et al
1994).  The combined fluxes are obtained by gray
shifting the blue fluxes to match the red fluxes in the
overlap region of 6500A-7500A and averaging the red and
blue fluxes in the overlap.  The separate red and blue
fluxes may be selected by following the star name with
"red" or "blue"; i.e. CD 32 blue.

* iidscal - Directory of the KPNO IIDS standards at 29 bandpasses,
data from various sources transformed to the Hayes and 
Latham system, unpublished.

* irscal - Directory of the KPNO IRS standards at 78 bandpasses,
data from various sources transformed to the Hayes and  
Latham system, unpublished (note that in this directory the 
brighter standards have no values - the `bstdscal' directory
must be used for these standards at this time).

* oke1990 - Directory of spectrophotometric standards observed for use 
with the HST, Table VII, Oke 1990, AJ, 99. 1621 (no 
correction was applied).  An arbitrary 1A bandpass
is specified for these smoothed and interpolated
flux "points".  Users may copy and modify these files
for other bandpasses.

* redcal - Directory of standard stars with flux data beyond 8370A.
These stars are from the IRS or the IIDS directory but
have data extending as far out into the red as the
literature permits.  Data from various sources.   

* spechayescal - The KPNO spectrophotometric standards at the Hayes flux
points, Table IV, Spectrophotometric Standards, Massey
et al., 1988, ApJ 328, p. 315.

* spec16cal -  Directory containing fluxes at 16A steps in the blue
range 3300-7550A for the secondary standards, published
in Hamuy et al., 1992, PASP, 104, 533.  This directory
also contains the fluxes of the secondaries in the red
(6020-10300A) at 16A steps as will be published in PASP
(Hamuy et al 1994).  The combined fluxes are obtained by
gray shifting the blue fluxes to match the red fluxes in
the overlap region of 6500A-7500A and averaging the blue
and red fluxes in the overlap.  The separate red and
blue fluxes may be selected by following the star name
with "red" or "blue"; i.e. HR 1544 blue.

* spec50cal - The KPNO spectrophotometric standards at 50 A intervals.
The data are from (1) Table V, Spectrophotometric Standards,
Massey et al., 1988, ApJ 328, p. 315 and (2) Table 3, The
Kitt Peak Spectrophotometric Standards: Extension to 1
micron, Massey and Gronwall, 1990, ApJ 358, p. 344.


Standard Star Menus
----------------------

Blackbody calibrations in onedstds/blackbody/

| <!-- --> | <!-- --> | <!-- --> | <!-- --> | <!-- --> | <!-- --> | <!-- --> | <!-- --> | <!-- --> | <!-- --> | <!-- --> |
|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|
| U        | B        | V        | R        | I        | J        | H        | K        |L         | Lprime   | M        |

Magnitude conversions are available between V, J, H, K, L, Lprime, and M
but for U, B, R, and I the star magnitudes must be in the same bandpass.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Standard stars in onedstds/bstdscal/

| <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   |
|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|
|hr718       |hr3454      |hr3982      |hr4468      |hr4534      |
|hr5191      |hr5511      |hr7001      |hr7596      |hr7950      |
|hr8634      |hr9087      |hd15318     |hd74280     |hd100889    |
|hd188350    |hd198001    |hd214923    |hd224926    | <!-- -->   |

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Standard stars in onedstds/ctiocal/

| <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   |
|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|
|bd25        | eg139      | feige56    | l2415      | l93080     |
|bd73632     | eg149      | feige98    | l2511      | l97030     |
|bd8         | eg158      | g16350     | l3218      | lds235     |
|cd32        | eg248      | g2631      | l3864      | lds749     |
|eg11        | eg274      | g9937      | l4364      | ltt4099    |
|eg21        | f15        | h600       | l4816      | ltt8702    |
|eg26        | f25        | hz2        | l6248      | ross627    |
|eg31        | f56        | hz4        | l7379      | w1346      |
|eg54        | f98        | hz15       | l7987      | w485a      |
|eg63        | f110       | kopf27     | l8702      | wolf1346   |
|eg76        | feige110   | l377       | l9239      | wolf485a   |
|eg79        | feige15    | l1020      | l9491      | <!-- -->   |
|eg99        | feige25    | l1788      | l74546     | <!-- -->   |

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Standard stars in onedstds/ctionewcal/:

Combined red and blue 3300A-10000A:

| <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   |
|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|
|cd32        | f56        | l2415      | l4364      | l7987      |
|eg21        | h600       | l3218      | l4816      | l9239      |
|eg274       | l1020      | l377       | l6248      | l9491      |
|f110        | l1788      | l3864      | l7379      | l745       |

Blue 3300A-7550A:

| <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   |
|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|
|cd32blue    | f56blue    | l2415blue  | l4364blue  | l7987blue  |
|eg21blue    | h600blue   | l3218blue  | l4816blue  | l9239blue  |
|eg274blue   | l1020blue  | l377blue   | l6248blue  | l9491blue  |
|f110blue    | l1788blue  | l3864blue  | l7379blue  | <!-- -->   |

Red 6050A-10000A:

| <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   |
|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|
|cd32red     | f56red     | l2415red   | l4364red   | l7987red   |
|eg21red     | h600red    | l3218red   | l4816red   | l9239red   |
|eg274red    | l1020red   | l377red    | l6248red   | l9491red   |
|f110red     | l1788red   | l3864red   | l7379red   | l745red    |

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Standard stars in onedstds/iidscal/

| <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   |
|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|
|40erib      | eg50       | eg149      | g16350     | hz4        | lds235b    |
|amcvn       | eg54       | eg158      | g191b2b    | hz7        | lds749b    |
|bd253941    | eg63       | eg162      | g2610      | hz14       | lft1655    |
|bd284211    | eg67       | eg182      | g2631      | hz15       | lp414101   |
|bd332642    | eg71       | eg184      | g4718      | hz29       | ltt13002   |
|bd404032    | eg76       | eg193      | g88        | hz43       | ltt16294   |
|bd73632     | eg77       | eg247      | g9937      | hz44       | ltt4099    |
|bd7781      | eg79       | eg248      | gd128      | kopff27    | ltt8702    |
|bd82015     | eg91       | feige15    | gd140      | l13633     | ross627    |
|eg11        | eg98       | feige24    | gd190      | l140349    | ross640    |
|eg20        | eg99       | feige25    | gh7112     | l14094     | sa29130    |
|eg26        | eg102      | feige34    | grw705824  | l151234b   | sao131065  |
|eg28        | eg119      | feige56    | grw708247  | l74546a    | ton573     |
|eg29        | eg129      | feige92    | grw738031  | l8702      | wolf1346   |
|eg31        | eg139      | feige98    | he3        | l93080     | wolf485a   |
|eg33        | eg144      | feige110   | hiltner102 | l97030     | <!-- -->   |
|eg39        | eg145      | g12627     | hiltner600 | lb1240     | <!-- -->   |
|eg42        | eg148      | g14563     | hz2        | lb227      | <!-- -->   |

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Standard stars in onedstds/irscal/

| <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   |
|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|
|bd082015    | eg50       | feige34    | hd117880   | hd60778    | hr7001     |
|bd174708    | eg71       | feige56    | hd161817   | hd74721    | hz44       |
|bd253941    | eg139      | feige92    | hd17520    | hd84937    | kopff27    |
|bd262606    | eg158      | feige98    | hd192281   | hd86986    | wolf1346   |
|bd284211    | eg247      | feige110   | hd19445    | he3        | <!-- -->   |
|bd332642    | feige15    | g191b2b    | hd217086   | hiltner102 | <!-- -->   |
|bd404032    | feige25    | hd109995   | hd2857     | hiltner600 | <!-- -->   |

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Standard stars in onedstds/oke1990/

| <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   |
|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|
|bd284211    | feige110   | feige67    | g191b2b    | g249       | gd248      | ltt9491    | eg71       |
|bd75325     | feige34    | g13831     | g19374     | gd108      | hz21       | eg158      | eg247      |

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Standard stars in onedstds/redcal/

| <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   |
|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|
| 40erib     | eg63       | eg139      | eg248      | gd140      | hz44       | ltt16294   |
| amcvn      | eg67       | eg144      | feige24    | gd190      | l13633     | ltt4099    |
| bd7781     | eg76       | eg145      | g12627     | grw705824  | l14094     | ltt8702    |
| bd73632    | eg79       | eg148      | g14563     | grw708247  | l151234b   | ross627    |
| bd174708   | eg91       | eg149      | g16350     | grw738031  | l74546a    | ross640    |
| bd262606   | eg98       | eg162      | g191b2b    | hd19445    | l93080     | sa29130    |
| eg20       | eg99       | eg182      | g2610      | hd84937    | l97030     | sao131065  |
| eg33       | eg102      | eg184      | g2631      | he3        | lds235b    | wolf1346   |
| eg50       | eg119      | eg193      | g4718      | hz29       | lds749b    | wolf485a   |
| eg54       | eg129      | eg247      | g9937      | hz43       | lft1655    | <!-- -->   |

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Standard stars in onedstds/spec16cal/:

Combined red and blue 3300A-10300A:

| <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   |
|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|
| hd15318    | hd74280    | hd114330   | hd188350   | hd214923   |
| hd30739    | hd100889   | hd129956   | hd198001   | hd224926   |
| hr1544     | hr4468     | hr5501     | hr7596     | hr8634     | 
| hr3454     | hr4963     | hr718      | hr7950     | hr9087     |

Blue 3300A-7550A:

| <!-- -->   | <!-- -->      | <!-- -->      | <!-- -->      | <!-- -->      |
|------------|---------------|---------------|---------------|---------------|
|hd15318blue | hd74280blue   | hd114330blue  | hd188350blue  | hd214923blue  |
|hd30739blue | hd100889blue  | hd129956blue  | hd198001blue  | hd224926blue  |
|hr1544blue  | hr4468blue    | hr5501blue    | hr7596blue    | hr8634blue    |
|hr3454blue  | hr4963blue    | hr718blue     | hr7950blue    | hr9087blue    |

Red 6020A-10300A:

| <!-- -->   | <!-- -->      | <!-- -->      | <!-- -->      | <!-- -->      |
|------------|---------------|---------------|---------------|---------------|
|hd15318red  | hd74280red    | hd114330red   | hd188350red   | hd214923red   |
|hd30739red  | hd100889red   | hd129956red   | hd198001red   | hd224926red   |
|hr1544red   | hr4468red     | hr5501red     | hr7596red     | hr8634red     |
|hr3454red   | hr4963red     | hr718red      | hr7950red     | hr9087red     |

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Standard stars in onedstds/spec50cal/  (3200A - 8100 A)

| <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   |
|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|
| bd284211   | eg247      | feige34    | hd192281   | pg0205134  | pg0934554  | wolf1346   |
| cygob2no9  | eg42       | feige66    | hd217086   | pg0216032  | pg0939262  | <!-- -->   |
| eg139      | eg71       | feige67    | hilt600    | pg0310149  | pg1121145  | <!-- -->   |
| eg158      | eg81       | g191b2b    | hz14       | pg0823546  | pg1545035  | <!-- -->   |
| eg20       | feige110   | gd140      | hz44       | pg0846249  | pg1708602  | <!-- -->   |

Standard stars in onedstds/spec50cal/  (3200A - 10200A)

| <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   |
|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|
| bd284211   | eg247      | feige34    | g191b2b    | hz44       |
| eg139      | eg71       | feige66    | gd140      | pg0823546  |
| eg158      | feige110   | feige67    | hilt600    | wolf1346   |

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Standard stars in onedstds/spechayescal/

| <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   |
|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|
| bd284211   | eg139      | feige67    | hd217086   | pg0216032  | pg0939262  |
| cygob2no9  | eg158      | feige110   | hiltner600 | pg0310149  | pg1121145  |
| eg42       | eg247      | g191b2b    | hz14       | pg0823546  | pg1545035  |
| eg71       | feige34    | gd140      | hz44       | pg0846249  | pg1708602  |
| eg81       | feige66    | hd192281   | pg0205134  | pg0934554  | wolf1346   |

Copyright(c) 1986 Association of Universities for Research in Astronomy Inc. (AURA)

The IRAF software is publicly available, but is NOT in the public domain.
The difference is that copyrights granting rights for unrestricted use and
redistribution have been placed on all of the software to identify its authors.
You are allowed and encouraged to take this software and use it as you wish,
subject to the restrictions outlined below.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation is hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright
notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this
permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and that references to
the Association of Universities for Research in Astronomy Inc. (AURA),
the National Optical Astronomy Observatories (NOAO), or the Image Reduction
and Analysis Facility (IRAF) not be used in advertising or publicity
pertaining to distribution of the software without specific, written prior
permission from NOAO.  NOAO makes no representations about the suitability
of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or
implied warranty.

NOAO DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL NOAO
BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN 
CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

update onedstds README to include snfactory info

specreduce/datasets/onedstds/README.md, after:

# README for specreduce/datasets/onedstds

This directory contains standard calibration data for extinction and sensitivity
calibration as used in 1D spectroscopy, 2D spectroscopy, as well as various
image reduction tasks.

Currently we focus on both extinction tables and flux standard directories inherited
from `IRAF`'s `noao` package.

Extinction Tables
-----------------

* ctioextinct.dat - CTIO extinction table for ONEDSPEC (in Angstroms)
The CTIO extinction curve distributed with IRAF comes from the work of
Stone & Baldwin (1983 MN 204, 347) and Baldwin & Stone (1984 MN 206,
241).  The first of these papers lists the points from 3200-8370A while
the second extended the flux calibration from 6056 to 10870A but the
derived extinction curve was not given in the paper.  The IRAF table
follows SB83 out to 6436, the redder points presumably come from BS84
with averages used in the overlap region.

    More recent CTIO extinction curves are shown as Figures in Hamuy
et al (92, PASP 104, 533 ; 94 PASP 106, 566). -- Steve Heathcote, Mon, 19 Jul 1999


* kpnoextinct.dat - KPNO extinction table for ONEDSPEC (in Angstroms)

Flux Standard Directories
----------------------------

 * blackbody - Directory for using blackbody flux distributions in
various magnitude bands.

 * bstdscal - Directory of the brighter KPNO IRS standards (i.e. those
with HR numbers) at 29 bandpasses, data from various
sources transformed to the Hayes and Latham system,
unpublished.

* ctiocal - Directory containing fluxes for the southern tertiary
standards as published by Baldwin & Stone, 1984, MNRAS,
206, 241 and Stone and Baldwin, 1983, MNRAS, 204, 347.

* ctionewcal - Directory containing fluxes at 50A steps in the blue range
3300-7550A for the tertiary standards of Baldwin and
Stone derived from the revised calibration of Hamuy et
al., 1992, PASP, 104, 533.  This directory also contains
the fluxes of the tertiaries in the red (6050-10000A) at
50A steps as will be published in PASP (Hamuy et al
1994).  The combined fluxes are obtained by gray
shifting the blue fluxes to match the red fluxes in the
overlap region of 6500A-7500A and averaging the red and
blue fluxes in the overlap.  The separate red and blue
fluxes may be selected by following the star name with
"red" or "blue"; i.e. CD 32 blue.

* iidscal - Directory of the KPNO IIDS standards at 29 bandpasses,
data from various sources transformed to the Hayes and
Latham system, unpublished.

* irscal - Directory of the KPNO IRS standards at 78 bandpasses,
data from various sources transformed to the Hayes and
Latham system, unpublished (note that in this directory the
brighter standards have no values - the `bstdscal' directory
must be used for these standards at this time).

* oke1990 - Directory of spectrophotometric standards observed for use
with the HST, Table VII, Oke 1990, AJ, 99. 1621 (no
correction was applied).  An arbitrary 1A bandpass
is specified for these smoothed and interpolated
flux "points".  Users may copy and modify these files
for other bandpasses.

* redcal - Directory of standard stars with flux data beyond 8370A.
These stars are from the IRS or the IIDS directory but
have data extending as far out into the red as the
literature permits.  Data from various sources.

* spechayescal - The KPNO spectrophotometric standards at the Hayes flux
points, Table IV, Spectrophotometric Standards, Massey
et al., 1988, ApJ 328, p. 315.

* spec16cal -  Directory containing fluxes at 16A steps in the blue
range 3300-7550A for the secondary standards, published
in Hamuy et al., 1992, PASP, 104, 533.  This directory
also contains the fluxes of the secondaries in the red
(6020-10300A) at 16A steps as will be published in PASP
(Hamuy et al 1994).  The combined fluxes are obtained by
gray shifting the blue fluxes to match the red fluxes in
the overlap region of 6500A-7500A and averaging the blue
and red fluxes in the overlap.  The separate red and
blue fluxes may be selected by following the star name
with "red" or "blue"; i.e. HR 1544 blue.

* spec50cal - The KPNO spectrophotometric standards at 50 A intervals.
The data are from (1) Table V, Spectrophotometric Standards,
Massey et al., 1988, ApJ 328, p. 315 and (2) Table 3, The
Kitt Peak Spectrophotometric Standards: Extension to 1
micron, Massey and Gronwall, 1990, ApJ 358, p. 344.

* snfactory - Preferred standard stars from the LBL Nearby Supernova
Factory project (https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2002SPIE.4836...61A/abstract).
Data compiled from https://snfactory.lbl.gov/snf/snf-specstars.html. See notes
there for details and references.


Standard Star Menus
----------------------

Blackbody calibrations in onedstds/blackbody/

| <!-- --> | <!-- --> | <!-- --> | <!-- --> | <!-- --> | <!-- --> | <!-- --> | <!-- --> | <!-- --> | <!-- --> | <!-- --> |
|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|
| U        | B        | V        | R        | I        | J        | H        | K        |L         | Lprime   | M        |

Magnitude conversions are available between V, J, H, K, L, Lprime, and M
but for U, B, R, and I the star magnitudes must be in the same bandpass.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Standard stars in onedstds/bstdscal/

| <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   |
|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|
|hr718       |hr3454      |hr3982      |hr4468      |hr4534      |
|hr5191      |hr5511      |hr7001      |hr7596      |hr7950      |
|hr8634      |hr9087      |hd15318     |hd74280     |hd100889    |
|hd188350    |hd198001    |hd214923    |hd224926    | <!-- -->   |

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Standard stars in onedstds/ctiocal/

| <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   |
|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|
|bd25        | eg139      | feige56    | l2415      | l93080     |
|bd73632     | eg149      | feige98    | l2511      | l97030     |
|bd8         | eg158      | g16350     | l3218      | lds235     |
|cd32        | eg248      | g2631      | l3864      | lds749     |
|eg11        | eg274      | g9937      | l4364      | ltt4099    |
|eg21        | f15        | h600       | l4816      | ltt8702    |
|eg26        | f25        | hz2        | l6248      | ross627    |
|eg31        | f56        | hz4        | l7379      | w1346      |
|eg54        | f98        | hz15       | l7987      | w485a      |
|eg63        | f110       | kopf27     | l8702      | wolf1346   |
|eg76        | feige110   | l377       | l9239      | wolf485a   |
|eg79        | feige15    | l1020      | l9491      | <!-- -->   |
|eg99        | feige25    | l1788      | l74546     | <!-- -->   |

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Standard stars in onedstds/ctionewcal/:

Combined red and blue 3300A-10000A:

| <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   |
|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|
|cd32        | f56        | l2415      | l4364      | l7987      |
|eg21        | h600       | l3218      | l4816      | l9239      |
|eg274       | l1020      | l377       | l6248      | l9491      |
|f110        | l1788      | l3864      | l7379      | l745       |

Blue 3300A-7550A:

| <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   |
|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|
|cd32blue    | f56blue    | l2415blue  | l4364blue  | l7987blue  |
|eg21blue    | h600blue   | l3218blue  | l4816blue  | l9239blue  |
|eg274blue   | l1020blue  | l377blue   | l6248blue  | l9491blue  |
|f110blue    | l1788blue  | l3864blue  | l7379blue  | <!-- -->   |

Red 6050A-10000A:

| <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   |
|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|
|cd32red     | f56red     | l2415red   | l4364red   | l7987red   |
|eg21red     | h600red    | l3218red   | l4816red   | l9239red   |
|eg274red    | l1020red   | l377red    | l6248red   | l9491red   |
|f110red     | l1788red   | l3864red   | l7379red   | l745red    |

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Standard stars in onedstds/iidscal/

| <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   |
|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|
|40erib      | eg50       | eg149      | g16350     | hz4        | lds235b    |
|amcvn       | eg54       | eg158      | g191b2b    | hz7        | lds749b    |
|bd253941    | eg63       | eg162      | g2610      | hz14       | lft1655    |
|bd284211    | eg67       | eg182      | g2631      | hz15       | lp414101   |
|bd332642    | eg71       | eg184      | g4718      | hz29       | ltt13002   |
|bd404032    | eg76       | eg193      | g88        | hz43       | ltt16294   |
|bd73632     | eg77       | eg247      | g9937      | hz44       | ltt4099    |
|bd7781      | eg79       | eg248      | gd128      | kopff27    | ltt8702    |
|bd82015     | eg91       | feige15    | gd140      | l13633     | ross627    |
|eg11        | eg98       | feige24    | gd190      | l140349    | ross640    |
|eg20        | eg99       | feige25    | gh7112     | l14094     | sa29130    |
|eg26        | eg102      | feige34    | grw705824  | l151234b   | sao131065  |
|eg28        | eg119      | feige56    | grw708247  | l74546a    | ton573     |
|eg29        | eg129      | feige92    | grw738031  | l8702      | wolf1346   |
|eg31        | eg139      | feige98    | he3        | l93080     | wolf485a   |
|eg33        | eg144      | feige110   | hiltner102 | l97030     | <!-- -->   |
|eg39        | eg145      | g12627     | hiltner600 | lb1240     | <!-- -->   |
|eg42        | eg148      | g14563     | hz2        | lb227      | <!-- -->   |

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Standard stars in onedstds/irscal/

| <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   |
|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|
|bd082015    | eg50       | feige34    | hd117880   | hd60778    | hr7001     |
|bd174708    | eg71       | feige56    | hd161817   | hd74721    | hz44       |
|bd253941    | eg139      | feige92    | hd17520    | hd84937    | kopff27    |
|bd262606    | eg158      | feige98    | hd192281   | hd86986    | wolf1346   |
|bd284211    | eg247      | feige110   | hd19445    | he3        | <!-- -->   |
|bd332642    | feige15    | g191b2b    | hd217086   | hiltner102 | <!-- -->   |
|bd404032    | feige25    | hd109995   | hd2857     | hiltner600 | <!-- -->   |

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Standard stars in onedstds/oke1990/

| <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   |
|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|
|bd284211    | feige110   | feige67    | g191b2b    | g249       | gd248      | ltt9491    | eg71       |
|bd75325     | feige34    | g13831     | g19374     | gd108      | hz21       | eg158      | eg247      |

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Standard stars in onedstds/redcal/

| <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   |
|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|
| 40erib     | eg63       | eg139      | eg248      | gd140      | hz44       | ltt16294   |
| amcvn      | eg67       | eg144      | feige24    | gd190      | l13633     | ltt4099    |
| bd7781     | eg76       | eg145      | g12627     | grw705824  | l14094     | ltt8702    |
| bd73632    | eg79       | eg148      | g14563     | grw708247  | l151234b   | ross627    |
| bd174708   | eg91       | eg149      | g16350     | grw738031  | l74546a    | ross640    |
| bd262606   | eg98       | eg162      | g191b2b    | hd19445    | l93080     | sa29130    |
| eg20       | eg99       | eg182      | g2610      | hd84937    | l97030     | sao131065  |
| eg33       | eg102      | eg184      | g2631      | he3        | lds235b    | wolf1346   |
| eg50       | eg119      | eg193      | g4718      | hz29       | lds749b    | wolf485a   |
| eg54       | eg129      | eg247      | g9937      | hz43       | lft1655    | <!-- -->   |

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Standard stars in onedstds/spec16cal/:

Combined red and blue 3300A-10300A:

| <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   |
|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|
| hd15318    | hd74280    | hd114330   | hd188350   | hd214923   |
| hd30739    | hd100889   | hd129956   | hd198001   | hd224926   |
| hr1544     | hr4468     | hr5501     | hr7596     | hr8634     |
| hr3454     | hr4963     | hr718      | hr7950     | hr9087     |

Blue 3300A-7550A:

| <!-- -->   | <!-- -->      | <!-- -->      | <!-- -->      | <!-- -->      |
|------------|---------------|---------------|---------------|---------------|
|hd15318blue | hd74280blue   | hd114330blue  | hd188350blue  | hd214923blue  |
|hd30739blue | hd100889blue  | hd129956blue  | hd198001blue  | hd224926blue  |
|hr1544blue  | hr4468blue    | hr5501blue    | hr7596blue    | hr8634blue    |
|hr3454blue  | hr4963blue    | hr718blue     | hr7950blue    | hr9087blue    |

Red 6020A-10300A:

| <!-- -->   | <!-- -->      | <!-- -->      | <!-- -->      | <!-- -->      |
|------------|---------------|---------------|---------------|---------------|
|hd15318red  | hd74280red    | hd114330red   | hd188350red   | hd214923red   |
|hd30739red  | hd100889red   | hd129956red   | hd198001red   | hd224926red   |
|hr1544red   | hr4468red     | hr5501red     | hr7596red     | hr8634red     |
|hr3454red   | hr4963red     | hr718red      | hr7950red     | hr9087red     |

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Standard stars in onedstds/spec50cal/  (3200A - 8100 A)

| <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   |
|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|
| bd284211   | eg247      | feige34    | hd192281   | pg0205134  | pg0934554  | wolf1346   |
| cygob2no9  | eg42       | feige66    | hd217086   | pg0216032  | pg0939262  | <!-- -->   |
| eg139      | eg71       | feige67    | hilt600    | pg0310149  | pg1121145  | <!-- -->   |
| eg158      | eg81       | g191b2b    | hz14       | pg0823546  | pg1545035  | <!-- -->   |
| eg20       | feige110   | gd140      | hz44       | pg0846249  | pg1708602  | <!-- -->   |

Standard stars in onedstds/spec50cal/  (3200A - 10200A)

| <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   |
|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|
| bd284211   | eg247      | feige34    | g191b2b    | hz44       |
| eg139      | eg71       | feige66    | gd140      | pg0823546  |
| eg158      | feige110   | feige67    | hilt600    | wolf1346   |

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Standard stars in onedstds/spechayescal/

| <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   | <!-- -->   |
|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|
| bd284211   | eg139      | feige67    | hd217086   | pg0216032  | pg0939262  |
| cygob2no9  | eg158      | feige110   | hiltner600 | pg0310149  | pg1121145  |
| eg42       | eg247      | g191b2b    | hz14       | pg0823546  | pg1545035  |
| eg71       | feige34    | gd140      | hz44       | pg0846249  | pg1708602  |
| eg81       | feige66    | hd192281   | pg0205134  | pg0934554  | wolf1346   |

Copyright(c) 1986 Association of Universities for Research in Astronomy Inc. (AURA)

The IRAF software is publicly available, but is NOT in the public domain.
The difference is that copyrights granting rights for unrestricted use and
redistribution have been placed on all of the software to identify its authors.
You are allowed and encouraged to take this software and use it as you wish,
subject to the restrictions outlined below.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation is hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright
notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this
permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and that references to
the Association of Universities for Research in Astronomy Inc. (AURA),
the National Optical Astronomy Observatories (NOAO), or the Image Reduction
and Analysis Facility (IRAF) not be used in advertising or publicity
pertaining to distribution of the software without specific, written prior
permission from NOAO.  NOAO makes no representations about the suitability
of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or
implied warranty.

NOAO DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL NOAO
BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
