docs/extinction.rst, before:

Atmospheric Extinction
======================

Introduction
------------

The Earth's atmosphere is highly chromatic in its transmission of light. The wavelength-dependence
is dominated by scattering in the optical (320-700 nm) and molecular features in the near-infrared
and infrared.

Supported Optical Extinction Models
-----------------------------------

`specreduce` offers support for average optical extinction models for a set of observatories:

.. csv-table::
    :header:  "Model Name", "Observatory", "Lat", "Lon", "Elevation (m)", "Ref"

    "ctio", "Cerro Tololo Int'l Observatory", "-30.165", "70.815", "2215", "1"
    "kpno", "Kitt Peak Nat'l Observatory", "31.963", "111.6", "2120", "2"
    "lapalma", "Roque de Los Muchachos Observatory", "28.764", "17.895", "2396", "3"
    "mko", "Mauna Kea Int'l Observatory", "19.828", "155.48", "4160", "4"
    "mtham", "Lick Observatory, Mt. Hamilton Station", "37.341", "121.643", "1290", "5"
    "paranal", "European Southern Obs., Paranal Station", "-24.627", "70.405", "2635", "6"
    "apo", "Apache Point Observatory", "32.780", "105.82", "2788", "7"



1. The CTIO extinction curve was originally distributed with IRAF and comes from the work of
Stone & Baldwin (1983 MN 204, 347) plus Baldwin & Stone (1984 MN 206,
241).  The first of these papers lists the points from 3200-8370A while
the second extended the flux calibration from 6056 to 10870A but the
derived extinction curve was not given in the paper.  The IRAF table
follows SB83 out to 6436, the redder points presumably come from BS84
with averages used in the overlap region. More recent CTIO extinction
curves are shown as Figures in Hamuy et al (92, PASP 104, 533 ; 94 PASP
106, 566).

2. The KPNO extinction table was originally distributed with IRAF. The ultimate provenance of this data is unclear,
but it has been used as-is in this form for over 30 years.

3. Extinction table for Roque de Los Muchachos Observatory, La Palma.
Described in https://www.ing.iac.es/Astronomy/observing/manuals/ps/tech_notes/tn031.pdf.

4. Median atmospheric extinction data for Mauna Kea Observatory measured by the Nearby SuperNova
Factory: https://www.aanda.org/articles/aa/pdf/2013/01/aa19834-12.pdf.

5. Extinction table for Lick Observatory on Mt. Hamilton constructed from
https://mthamilton.ucolick.org/techdocs/standards/lick_mean_extinct.html.

6. Updated extinction table for ESO-Paranal taken from
https://www.aanda.org/articles/aa/pdf/2011/03/aa15537-10.pdf.

7. Extinction table for Apache Point Observatory. Based on the extinction table used for SDSS and
available at https://www.apo.nmsu.edu/arc35m/Instruments/DIS/ (https://www.apo.nmsu.edu/arc35m/Instruments/DIS/images/apoextinct.dat).

In each case, the extinction is given in magnitudes at an airmass of 0 and the wavelengths are in Angstroms. Here is an example that
loads each model and plots the extinction in magnitudes as well as fractional transmission as a function of wavelength.

.. plot::
    :include-source:

    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
    from specreduce.calibration_data import AtmosphericExtinction, AtmosphericTransmission, SUPPORTED_EXTINCTION_MODELS

    fig, ax = plt.subplots(2, 1, sharex=True)
    for model in SUPPORTED_EXTINCTION_MODELS:
        ext = AtmosphericExtinction(model=model)
        ax[0].plot(ext.spectral_axis, ext.extinction_mag, label=model)
        ax[1].plot(ext.spectral_axis, ext.transmission)
    ax[0].legend()
    ax[1].set_xlabel("Wavelength ($\AA$)")
    ax[0].set_ylabel("Extinction (mag)")
    ax[1].set_ylabel("Transmission")
    plt.tight_layout()
    fig.show()

Commit message:

add AtmosphericTransmission example and plot to the docs

docs/extinction.rst, after:

Atmospheric Extinction
======================

Introduction
------------

The Earth's atmosphere is highly chromatic in its transmission of light. The wavelength-dependence
is dominated by scattering in the optical (320-700 nm) and molecular features in the near-infrared
and infrared.

Supported Optical Extinction Models
-----------------------------------

`specreduce` offers support for average optical extinction models for a set of observatories:

.. csv-table::
    :header:  "Model Name", "Observatory", "Lat", "Lon", "Elevation (m)", "Ref"

    "ctio", "Cerro Tololo Int'l Observatory", "-30.165", "70.815", "2215", "1"
    "kpno", "Kitt Peak Nat'l Observatory", "31.963", "111.6", "2120", "2"
    "lapalma", "Roque de Los Muchachos Observatory", "28.764", "17.895", "2396", "3"
    "mko", "Mauna Kea Int'l Observatory", "19.828", "155.48", "4160", "4"
    "mtham", "Lick Observatory, Mt. Hamilton Station", "37.341", "121.643", "1290", "5"
    "paranal", "European Southern Obs., Paranal Station", "-24.627", "70.405", "2635", "6"
    "apo", "Apache Point Observatory", "32.780", "105.82", "2788", "7"



1. The CTIO extinction curve was originally distributed with IRAF and comes from the work of
Stone & Baldwin (1983 MN 204, 347) plus Baldwin & Stone (1984 MN 206,
241).  The first of these papers lists the points from 3200-8370A while
the second extended the flux calibration from 6056 to 10870A but the
derived extinction curve was not given in the paper.  The IRAF table
follows SB83 out to 6436, the redder points presumably come from BS84
with averages used in the overlap region. More recent CTIO extinction
curves are shown as Figures in Hamuy et al (92, PASP 104, 533 ; 94 PASP
106, 566).

2. The KPNO extinction table was originally distributed with IRAF. The ultimate provenance of this data is unclear,
but it has been used as-is in this form for over 30 years.

3. Extinction table for Roque de Los Muchachos Observatory, La Palma.
Described in https://www.ing.iac.es/Astronomy/observing/manuals/ps/tech_notes/tn031.pdf.

4. Median atmospheric extinction data for Mauna Kea Observatory measured by the Nearby SuperNova
Factory: https://www.aanda.org/articles/aa/pdf/2013/01/aa19834-12.pdf.

5. Extinction table for Lick Observatory on Mt. Hamilton constructed from
https://mthamilton.ucolick.org/techdocs/standards/lick_mean_extinct.html.

6. Updated extinction table for ESO-Paranal taken from
https://www.aanda.org/articles/aa/pdf/2011/03/aa15537-10.pdf.

7. Extinction table for Apache Point Observatory. Based on the extinction table used for SDSS and
available at https://www.apo.nmsu.edu/arc35m/Instruments/DIS/ (https://www.apo.nmsu.edu/arc35m/Instruments/DIS/images/apoextinct.dat).

In each case, the extinction is given in magnitudes per airmass and the wavelengths are in Angstroms. Here is an example that
uses the `AtmosphericExtinction` class to load each model and plots the extinction in magnitudes as well as fractional transmission
as a function of wavelength:

.. plot::
    :include-source:

    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
    from specreduce.calibration_data import AtmosphericExtinction, SUPPORTED_EXTINCTION_MODELS

    fig, ax = plt.subplots(2, 1, sharex=True)
    for model in SUPPORTED_EXTINCTION_MODELS:
        ext = AtmosphericExtinction(model=model)
        ax[0].plot(ext.spectral_axis, ext.extinction_mag, label=model)
        ax[1].plot(ext.spectral_axis, ext.transmission)
    ax[0].legend(fancybox=True, shadow=True)
    ax[1].set_xlabel("Wavelength ($\AA$)")
    ax[0].set_ylabel("Extinction (mag)")
    ax[1].set_ylabel("Transmission")
    plt.tight_layout()
    fig.show()

A convenience class, `AtmosphericTransmission`, is provided for loading data files containing atmospheric transmission versus wavelength.
The common use case for this would be loading the output of telluric models. By default it loads a telluric model for an airmass of 1 and
1 mm of precipitable water.

.. plot::
    :include-source:

    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
    from specreduce.calibration_data import AtmosphericTransmission, SUPPORTED_EXTINCTION_MODELS

    fig, ax = plt.subplots()
    ext_default = AtmosphericTransmission()
    ext_custom = AtmosphericTransmission(data_file="atm_transmission_secz1.5_1.6mm.dat")
    ax.plot(ext_default.spectral_axis, ext_default.transmission, label=r"sec $z$ = 1; 1 mm H$_{2}$O", linewidth=1)
    ax.plot(ext_custom.spectral_axis, ext_custom.transmission, label=r"sec $z$ = 1.5; 1.6 mm H$_{2}$O", linewidth=1)
    ax.legend(loc="upper center", bbox_to_anchor=(0.5, 1.12), ncol=2, fancybox=True, shadow=True)
    ax.set_xlabel("Wavelength (microns)")
    ax.set_ylabel("Transmission")
    fig.show()
