docs/extraction_quickstart.rst, before:

.. _extraction_quickstart:

Spectral Extraction Quick Start
===============================

Specreduce provides flexible functionality for extracting a 1D spectrum from a 2D spectral image,
including steps for determining the trace of a spectrum, background subtraction, and extraction.


Tracing
-------

The `specreduce.tracing` module defines the trace of a spectrum on the 2D image.  These
traces can either be determined semi-automatically or manually, and are provided as the inputs for
the remaining steps of the extraction process.  Supported trace types include:

* `~specreduce.tracing.ArrayTrace`
* `~specreduce.tracing.FlatTrace`
* `~specreduce.tracing.FitTrace`


Each of these trace classes takes the 2D spectral image as input, as well as additional information
needed to define or determine the trace (see the API docs above for required parameters for each
of the available trace classes)::

  trace = specreduce.tracing.FlatTrace(image, 15)


Background
----------

The `specreduce.background` module generates and subtracts a background image from
the input 2D spectral image.  The `~specreduce.background.Background` object is defined by one
or more windows, and can be generated with:

* `~specreduce.background.Background`
* `Background.one_sided <specreduce.background.Background.one_sided>`
* `Background.two_sided <specreduce.background.Background.two_sided>`

The center of the window can either be passed as a float/integer or as a trace::

  bg = specreduce.tracing.Background.one_sided(image, trace, separation=5, width=2)


or, equivalently::

  bg = specreduce.tracing.Background.one_sided(image, 15, separation=5, width=2)


The background image can be accessed via `~specreduce.background.Background.bkg_image` and the
background-subtracted image via `~specreduce.background.Background.sub_image` (or ``image - bg``).

The background and trace steps can be done iteratively, to refine an automated trace using the
background-subtracted image as input.

Extraction
----------

The `specreduce.extract` module extracts a 1D spectrum from an input 2D spectrum (likely a
background-extracted spectrum from the previous step) and a defined window, using one of the
implemented methods:

* `~specreduce.extract.BoxcarExtract`
* `~specreduce.extract.HorneExtract`

Each of these takes the input image and trace as inputs (see the API above for other required
and optional parameters)::

  extract = specreduce.extract.BoxcarExtract(image-bg, trace, width=3)

or::

  extract = specreduce.extract.HorneExtract(image-bg, trace)

For the Horne algorithm, the input image must include uncertainty and mask.
These two calls set the options and initialize the object. To extract the spectrum, the
syntax is::

  spectrum = extract.spectrum

The ``extract`` object contains all the set options.  The extracted 1D spectrum can be
accessed via the ``spectrum`` property or by calling the ``extract`` object (which also allows
temporarily overriding any values)::

  spectrum2 = extract(width=6)

The Horne algorithm preforms a Gaussian fit on the source, it is thus best suited for cases
where the source has a Gaussian profile in the cross-dispersion direction.

Example Workflow
----------------

This will produce a 1D spectrum, with flux in units of the 2D spectrum. The wavelength units will
be pixels. Wavelength and flux calibration steps are not included here.

Putting all these steps together, a simple extraction process might look something like::

    from specreduce.trace import FlatTrace
    from specreduce.background import Background
    from specreduce.extract import BoxcarExtract

    trace = FlatTrace(image, 15)
    bg = Background.two_sided(image, trace, separation=5, width=2)
    extract = BoxcarExtract(image-bg, trace, width=3)
    spectrum = extract.spectrum

Commit message:

Add a note about FitTrace with low S/N (#172)
* Add a note about FitTrace with low S/N

docs/extraction_quickstart.rst, after:

.. _extraction_quickstart:

Spectral Extraction Quick Start
===============================

Specreduce provides flexible functionality for extracting a 1D spectrum from a 2D spectral image,
including steps for determining the trace of a spectrum, background subtraction, and extraction.


Tracing
-------

The `specreduce.tracing` module defines the trace of a spectrum on the 2D image.  These
traces can either be determined semi-automatically or manually, and are provided as the inputs for
the remaining steps of the extraction process.  Supported trace types include:

* `~specreduce.tracing.ArrayTrace`
* `~specreduce.tracing.FlatTrace`
* `~specreduce.tracing.FitTrace`


Each of these trace classes takes the 2D spectral image as input, as well as additional information
needed to define or determine the trace (see the API docs above for required parameters for each
of the available trace classes)::

  trace = specreduce.tracing.FlatTrace(image, 15)

.. note::
  The fit for `~specreduce.tracing.FitTrace` may be adversely affected by noise where the spectrum
  is faint. Narrowing the window parameter or lowering the order of the fitting function may
  improve the result for noisy data.


Background
----------

The `specreduce.background` module generates and subtracts a background image from
the input 2D spectral image.  The `~specreduce.background.Background` object is defined by one
or more windows, and can be generated with:

* `~specreduce.background.Background`
* `Background.one_sided <specreduce.background.Background.one_sided>`
* `Background.two_sided <specreduce.background.Background.two_sided>`

The center of the window can either be passed as a float/integer or as a trace::

  bg = specreduce.tracing.Background.one_sided(image, trace, separation=5, width=2)


or, equivalently::

  bg = specreduce.tracing.Background.one_sided(image, 15, separation=5, width=2)


The background image can be accessed via `~specreduce.background.Background.bkg_image` and the
background-subtracted image via `~specreduce.background.Background.sub_image` (or ``image - bg``).

The background and trace steps can be done iteratively, to refine an automated trace using the
background-subtracted image as input.

Extraction
----------

The `specreduce.extract` module extracts a 1D spectrum from an input 2D spectrum (likely a
background-extracted spectrum from the previous step) and a defined window, using one of the
implemented methods:

* `~specreduce.extract.BoxcarExtract`
* `~specreduce.extract.HorneExtract`

Each of these takes the input image and trace as inputs (see the API above for other required
and optional parameters)::

  extract = specreduce.extract.BoxcarExtract(image-bg, trace, width=3)

or::

  extract = specreduce.extract.HorneExtract(image-bg, trace)

For the Horne algorithm, the input image must include uncertainty and mask.
These two calls set the options and initialize the object. To extract the spectrum, the
syntax is::

  spectrum = extract.spectrum

The ``extract`` object contains all the set options.  The extracted 1D spectrum can be
accessed via the ``spectrum`` property or by calling the ``extract`` object (which also allows
temporarily overriding any values)::

  spectrum2 = extract(width=6)

The Horne algorithm preforms a Gaussian fit on the source, it is thus best suited for cases
where the source has a Gaussian profile in the cross-dispersion direction.

Example Workflow
----------------

This will produce a 1D spectrum, with flux in units of the 2D spectrum. The wavelength units will
be pixels. Wavelength and flux calibration steps are not included here.

Putting all these steps together, a simple extraction process might look something like::

    from specreduce.trace import FlatTrace
    from specreduce.background import Background
    from specreduce.extract import BoxcarExtract

    trace = FlatTrace(image, 15)
    bg = Background.two_sided(image, trace, separation=5, width=2)
    extract = BoxcarExtract(image-bg, trace, width=3)
    spectrum = extract.spectrum
