docs/index.rst, before:

########################
Specreduce Documentation
########################

The `specreduce <https://specreduce.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html>`_ package aims to provide a data reduction toolkit for optical
and infrared spectroscopy, on which applications such as pipeline processes for
specific instruments can be built. The scope of its functionality is limited to
basic spectroscopic reduction, with basic *image* processing steps (such as
bias subtraction) instead covered by `ccdproc <https://ccdproc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ and other packages, data
analysis by `specutils <https://specutils.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ and visualization by `matplotlib <https://matplotlib.org/>`_. A few
examples will nevertheless be provided of its usage in conjunction with these
complementary packages.

.. note::

    Specreduce is currently an incomplete work-in-progress and is liable to
    change. Please feel free to contribute code and suggestions through github.


.. _spectral-extraction:

*******************
Spectral Extraction
*******************

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    extraction_quickstart.rst

***********
Calibration
***********

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    extinction.rst
    specphot_standards.rst


*****
Index
*****

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    api.rst

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`


****************
Development Docs
****************

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    process/index

Commit message:

Add summary of capabilities/user stories to docs index page

docs/index.rst, after:

########################
Specreduce Documentation
########################

The `specreduce <https://specreduce.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html>`_ package
aims to provide a data reduction toolkit for optical
and infrared spectroscopy, on which applications such as pipeline processes for
specific instruments can be built. The scope of its functionality is limited to
basic spectroscopic reduction, with basic *image* processing steps (such as
bias subtraction) instead covered by `ccdproc <https://ccdproc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_
and other packages, data analysis by `specutils <https://specutils.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_,
and visualization by `matplotlib <https://matplotlib.org/>`_. A few
examples will nevertheless be provided of its usage in conjunction with these
complementary packages.

Specreduce is currently useful mainly for the following three tasks:

#. Determining the trace of a spectrum dispersed in a 2D image, either by setting a flat
   trace or fitting a spline, polynomial, or other model to the positions of the dispersed
   spectrum.
#. Generating a background based on a region on one or both sides of this trace, and making
   available the background image, 1D spectrum of the background, and the
   background-subtracted image.
#. Performing either a Horne (aka "optimal") or boxcar extraction on either the original
   or background-subtracted 2D spectrum, using the trace generated by the first task to
   generate a 1D spectrum.

Further details about these capabilities are detailed in the sections linked below.

.. note::

    Specreduce is currently an incomplete work-in-progress and is liable to
    change. Please feel free to contribute code and suggestions through github.


.. _spectral-extraction:

*******************
Spectral Extraction
*******************

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    extraction_quickstart.rst

***********
Calibration
***********

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    extinction.rst
    specphot_standards.rst


*****
Index
*****

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    api.rst

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`


****************
Development Docs
****************

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    process/index
